1.	List all the details of employees 

ans : select * from emp;

2.	List employee names, hire date, salaries, department numbers of all employees. 
	select ename,hiredate,sal emp.deptno from emp;

3.	List name, sal , commission  and department number   of the employees who are working in departments 20 , 30 and 40
	select ename, sal, nvl(comm,0),emp.deptno from emp where emp.deptno IN (20,30,40)

4.	List the name , comm And job of the employees whose designation are either clerk or salesman
	select ename,nvl(comm,0),job from emp where job IN ('CLERK','SALESMAN');
	
5.	List the name and monthly income of the employees belonging to dept no 30.
	select ename,sal from emp;

6.	List the name & Designation of the employees who have the highest designation.
	select ename,job from emp where MGR IS NULL;

7.	List the name, sal & designation of the employees who are having managers.(people who are reporting to someone)
	select ename,job from emp where MGR IS NOT NULL;

8.	List the name & Designation of the employees who have joined before Jan 82.
	select ename and job from emp where hiredate < '01 Jan 1982';

9.	List the names, designation & income for 10 years annual income of the employees who are working in departments 10 & 30.
	select ename,job ,sal*12*10 AS "Income" from emp where deptno=10 OR deptno=30;
			
10.	List the name & experience (in years) of the employees who are working as CLERKS.
	selcet ename,  AS Experience from emp where job='CLERK';

11.	List the names & Mgr of the employees whose names should start with ‘A’ & end with ‘S’.
	select ename,mgr from emp where ename LIKE 'A%S';

12.	List the names & salary of the employees whose names should start with ‘M’or end with R.
	select ename,sal from emp where ename LIKE 'M%' OR ename LIKE '%R';

13.	List the names & job of the employees whose names should contain ‘A’ as the second or third character & Ending with either ‘N’or’S’
	select ename,job from emp where (ename LIKE '_A%N' OR ename LIKE '__A%N' OR ename LIKE '_A%S' OR ename LIKE '__A%S');

14.	List the names of employees who have joined in the year 1982
	select ename,hiredate from emp where hiredate BETWEEN '01-JAN-82' AND '31-DEC-82';

15.	List the names, exp in yrs and comm. Of president. IF commission exists display it otherwise display 0 for comm.
	select ename, ROUND(MONTHS_BETWEEN(sysdate,'17-NOV-81')/12) AS Experience, NVL(comm,0) from emp where ename='KING';

16.	List the details of dept where the location of the dept is in Boston
	select * from dept where loc='BOSTON';

17.	List the details of the employees with the elaborated Column Headers
	select ename "Employee Name" from emp;
	
18.	List the names and salary of the employees who are earning more than 40 k per annum
	select ename, sal*12 AS "Earning" from emp
	WHERE sal*12>=40000 ;

19.	List the names, job and hire date  of the employees and sort them depending on their exp in ascending order 
	select ename, job, hiredate from emp ORDER BY hiredate;

20.	List the names, monthly income and annual income of the employees and sort them in descending order depending on their annual income.
	select ename , sal, sal*12 AS "Annual Income" from emp ORDER BY sal*12 DESC;

21.	List the different types of  department  numbers from the emp table 
	select deptno from dept;

22.	List the different types of designations and sort them in ascending order 
	select ename, job from emp ORDER BY job;

23.	List the name and salary of the employees who are earning between 1000 and 3000 and sort them depending on their sal and income
	select ename ,sal from emp 
	WHERE sal BETWEEN 1000 AND 3000
	ORDER BY sal;

24.	List the empno, names and deptno and  no of employees who have got exp of more than 18 yrs.
	
	

--Joins and Function 
1.	List names ,jobs and deptno of the employee who are having the same job as that of the any empls of dept 20 and sort them in ascending order by deptno
	select ename, job ,emp.deptno from emp GROUP BY deptno=20
	ORDER BY deptno;

	select ename , job, deptno , from emp where job =(select job from emp 

	
2.	List the above details without showing dept no 20
	select ename,job,deptno from emp where deptno IN (10,30,40) ORDER BY deptno;
 
3.	List the names , deptno and dept name for all the employees 
	select ename, emp.deptno from emp where dname=emp.deptno=dept.deptno;
	
4.	List the name,job deptno and dname for all employees who work in Dallas.
	select ename,job ,e.deptno,loc from emp e,dept d where e.deptno=d.deptno AND d.loc='DALLAS';

5.	List the name, job , dept that has no employees 
6.	List the employee name , dept  name and location of all empls who earn commission
7.	List the employee details who earn highest salary for their job
8.	List the name and hiredate of any empls hired after the employee Blake
9.	List the lowest paid empl who are getting 3 min salaries and sort the result by sal in ascending order
10.	List the no of people with the each job type
11.	List the deptname , location Name , no of empls and their average salary for the all empls in that dept and label the columns count(*) as number of people and salary.
